# Car Counter

## Description

Car Counter is a powerful tool designed to count and categorize vehicles in real-time. Utilizing advanced object detection algorithms, the application is capable of processing video streams to identify and classify various types of vehicles, providing valuable insights and data.

## Features

- **Real-Time Vehicle Counting:** Process video streams to count vehicles in real-time.
- **Vehicle Classification:** Identify and categorize different types of vehicles.
- **Data Visualization:** Visualize the processed data for better insights and understanding.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/richard-zi/carcounter.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
```bash
cd carcounter
```

3. Install the required dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

1. Run the main application:
```bash
streamlit run main.py
```

2. Run the server application:
```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

3. Follow the on-screen instructions to start processing the video streams.

## Technologies Used

This project leverages several cutting-edge technologies to perform object detection and vehicle counting:

- **YOLOv8:** An advanced object detection algorithm is utilized for real-time object detection. YOLOv8 is capable of detecting and categorizing multiple objects in images and videos swiftly and accurately.

- **ByteTrack:** This is a state-of-the-art tracking algorithm used to maintain the identities of detected objects across various video frames. It ensures consistent and accurate tracking of vehicles throughout the video streams.

- **Streamlit:** A fast, easy-to-use open-source app framework used for building custom web apps for machine learning and data science. In this project, Streamlit is utilized to create a dashboard that visualizes the results and insights generated by the vehicle counting process.

## Dashboard

The Streamlit dashboard is a user-friendly interface that allows users to interact with the application, select video streams for processing, and visualize the results in real-time. The dashboard provides a holistic view of the data, showcasing the vehicle counts and classifications in an accessible and understandable manner.

## How to Access the Dashboard

1. After running the main application, a local web server will start.
2. Open your web browser and navigate to the URL displayed in the terminal.
3. Interact with the dashboard to select video streams and view the processed results.

## Acknowledgements

We appreciate the brilliant minds behind YOLOv8, ByteTrack, and Streamlit for developing and maintaining these remarkable technologies that have immensely contributed to the success of this project.


## Contributors

This project was collaboratively developed by:

- [Richard Zimmermann](https://github.com/richard-zi) 
- [Moritz von Angern](https://github.com/movonangern)

We express our sincere gratitude to Moritz von Angern for the significant contributions and collaboration throughout the development process of this application. Your expertise and insights have been immensely valuable in making this project a success.

Feel free to reach out to us with any questions, issues, or contributions you might have.

## License

This project is open-source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).


